so one thing we talked about a lot was
how there's some moves that are probably
more likely to cause injury than others
but you can still practice them but
there's just some ways we can try to
make them safer right in the eyes we
practice so maybe take us through take
us through that okay great so
essentially this video is about giving
you some strategies on how to practice
your poi in a way that will minimize
your chance of injury and so we
mentioned before one of the causes of
injuries over you simply doing something
for too long so in order to combat that
risk clearly adding more variety to your
practice so you say you're learning a
new trick and you're going and you're
going and going try to change it up
frequently so that you have lots of
variety to give your body a break so
that's one strategy and another strategy
is simply to find ways in your poi
spinning routine or practice to find
rest and rest can mean that you actually
think of your poi in those moments as
props they're not the centerpiece but
your body is the centerpiece so you can
find beautiful movements and if you've
seen really great performers their
bodies are doing a lot more than just
being a prop for the poi the point is a
prop for their body so try to find nice
Dancy type moves to try to to be to
beautify the aesthetic but also give
your body a bit of a rest and this is
often why I emphasize learning through
jiggy's well where the turning of the
poi is just an extension of how you're
moving right because what that's going
to do is that your arm your arms can be
in a very restful position but because
of how you're moving the body you're
still doing patterns so we also
discussed in our videos about causes of
injury about how in poi trying to
achieve really beautiful geometric
symmetry requires your body to use
extreme ranges of motion so to counter
this problem what we can do is say
practice a range that is extreme so
behind the back good now say Nick wants
to go over the head which is another
extreme range he's actually going to
take it into a neutral position first
that's not so extreme and then once
you've been there for a little bit then
go to your next extreme so you're not
taking it from extreme to extreme right
away especially as you're just getting
into your practice you're going to take
an extreme neutral than to it opposite
extreme really as you're learning a new
trick finding a neutral launching
pattern to work from so for behind the
back we've a backwards weave in front is
a good launching pattern it's a very
it's fairly neutral arms are in a nice
neutral kind of what i call a Tai Chi
position yes from here I go into the
behind the back wheel and then I come I
come back to the neutral position again
exactly so those two ideas work together
always finding something neutral to work
from that isn't really demanding on your
body and then trying something that's
more demanding on your body and then
coming back to neutral good so we also
talked about how the jarring stalled in
the decelerating a movement and then
accelerated in the opposite direction
could be creating injury so it looks
amazing but it could be setting you
yourself up for so sore shoulders so
Nick why don't we show that the movement
that gave your shoulders trouble it was
this kind of that kind of stuff that the
reaching way over way over so one way to
really counteract any risk here is to
reduce the range at which you're working
with us especially in the beginning so
instead of reaching all the way over
reach a half way over so can you show
the same move with less range I can
still practice my planes exactly not
reach you so far anymore or maybe I just
do this hat this much and I could try to
get really good at this yes super so you
can reduce the range and make it smaller
just to practice your planes and
eventually make it bigger and bigger so
you don't need to practice the full
range for the whole exercise if your
whole practice in order to experience
benefit because your body is going to be
commanding those muscles in the same way
every time just sometimes a little bit
further than others so you don't need to
do a half an hour full range you can do
a couple of times and then some shorter
range
versions of the same stall now remember
it's not just about the poi so as I've
watched poisoners practice and dance
I've noticed that sometimes the focus is
all on the poi but not on what the body
is doing and one thing that really
stands out our back bends so you're
going to have Nick demonstrating a
backbend and what you want to look for
is a nice global backbend so good you
want to see coming all the way down now
Nick hinges only from the low back that
puts a lot of stress on his low back so
come on up there so now Nick is thinking
about lengthening is fine and then come
back up good instead of hinging so you
can look at all of the movement that
you're doing while you're spinning your
poi and try to identify areas we might
see strain and where you see strain is
usually where there's a hinge and it
doesn't look like a big global curve so
again for a backbend if you have a nice
arch you're doing well but if you're
sitting into your hips and your you're
going from here my back isn't arching at
all but if I lift I can actually get
back further good so again some of the
principles that were providing for your
practice is one to find rest and two to
find beautiful ways of moving your body
in order to promote rest so you don't
over use your muscles and to to have a
look at how the extreme patterns that
you're the patterns requiring extreme
ranges can be modified in between to
find neutral launching patterns or
neutral restful patterns before you
explore the extreme ranges again and
three really having a look at the
balance of your program so are you
always rotating forwards backwards
clockwise counterclockwise inwards and
outwards and equal proportions and then
for have a look at your stalling
patterns and realizing that actually you
can practice the pattern with less range
to try to get your planes in perfection
and then you can slowly try to increase
the range at what you're doing your
stalls and one of the great things about
this is this idea of finding rest or
more
restful movement it's a good habit for
your body and it's also a good habit for
performance because I what I see today
is a lot of tech videos for people are
going Trick Trick Trick stall stall
stall trick trick Saul Saul Saul it's
just tricks and salts which if you're
always moving like that is putting a lot
of strain on your body but it also gets
can get boring to watch after a minute
so what can be nice is you know if you
do a bunch of fast stuff and then if you
just came into doing not something like
this hey that can that gives your
shoulders time to relax and rest but
also it looks nice so it changes the
speed of the performance so having that
habit of going from fast stuff to slow
stuff from you know really technical
stuff to more dancey stuff it's a good
thing to do on a lot of levels